add quickstart with flightdata and Tableau (#5)
hologres/hologres-doc: doc/source/quickstart/quickstart-hologres with tableau.md

  Div5AirportSeqID integer,
  Div5WheelsOn text,
  Div5TotalGTime numeric(13,2),
  Div5LongestGTime numeric(13,2),
  Div5WheelsOff text,
  Div5TailNum text,
  trailer integer
);

CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'clustering_key', 'FltYear, FltQuarter, FltMonth');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'segment_key', 'FltYear');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'shard_count', '1');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'bitmap_columns', 'OriginState, DestState, FltDayofMonth, FltDayOfWeek, Carrier');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'dictionary_encoding_columns', 'UniqueCarrier, Carrier, TailNum, Origin, OriginCityName, OriginState, OriginStateName, Dest, DestCityName, DestState, DestStateName, DepTimeBlk, WheelsOff, WheelsOn, ArrTimeBlk, CancellationCode, Div1Airport, Div1WheelsOn, Div1WheelsOff, Div1TailNum, Div2Airport, Div2WheelsOn, Div2WheelsOff, Div2TailNum, Div3Airport, Div3WheelsOn, Div3WheelsOff, Div3TailNum, Div4Airport, Div4WheelsOn, Div4WheelsOff, Div4TailNum, Div5Airport, Div5WheelsOn, Div5WheelsOff, Div5TailNum');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'time_to_live_in_seconds', '31536000');
COMMIT;
```

After you finish the script file, execute the script file.

```

> PGPASSWORD=<password> psql -U <username> -h <ip> -p <port> -d <database> -f /temp/data.ddl

Reviewer: '/temp/data.ddl' doesn't match the '/temp/ddl' above

```

If the error comes as follow:

```
ERROR:  exec query failed => status:7,error=ERROR:  Query:[20000745330718297] Get result failed: code: kActorInvokeError
msg: "code: kInternalError msg: \"status { code: SERVER_INTERNAL_ERROR message: \\\"query next from pg executor failed from 11.160.224.215:19577: failed to query next, detail:invalid byte sequence for encoding \\\\\\\"UTF8\\\\\\\": 0xe2 0x22 0x2c [method:QueryNext,transaction_id:20000745330718297,query_id:20000745330718297,batch_id:0,actor_id:837916746126030549:23,worker_address:11.160.224.215:37769,11.160.224.215:31851]\\\" }\""
```

As mentioned at the beginning, 14 files fails uploading for the invalid byte sequence for encoding. Delete them and reupload.

Let's do the final confirmation.

```
select count(*) from ontime;
```

```
count
-------
177821031
```

## Query

We prepare 10 queries for you to have a try:

1.--Query: Average monthly flight takeoff and landing records

```
SELECT avg(c1) 
FROM ( SELECT FltYear, FltMonth, count(*) as c1 FROM ontime GROUP BY FltYear, FltMonth ) A;
```

```
           avg           
-------------------------
 493947.3083333333333333
(1 row)

> Time: 158.323 ms

Reviewer: remove all the "Time: xxx" from all the query results

```
# remove the files in 2001 .12 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2001*.csv

# remove the files in 2002_1 and 2002_2 , 2 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_1.csv
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_2.csv
```

3.Unzip the Dataset 

Once download the data, go to the directory and unzip the data with the following script:

```
find . -name '*.zip'-exec unzip {} \；
```

the following warning might come, choose "N":
```
#replace readme.html? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: 
```

## Create Table in Hologres 

Let's connect to Hologres via psql with the following command..

```
PGPASSWORD=<password> psql -U <username> -h <ip> -p <port> -d <database>
```

Now you have landed Hologres successfully.

Let's check the database in Hologres and there shoud be no database by default.

```
\l
```

Let's create some database and check.

```
CREATE DATABASE HOLO_TESTDB；
\l;
```

Let's save data into a file since the table we need is quite long.
Create a file first, then save as a text file.

As fowllowing, create one "data.ddl".

```

> mkdir /temp/data.ddl

Reviewer: data.ddl is a file, you can't 'mkdir' a file

```
# remove the files in 2001 .12 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2001*.csv

# remove the files in 2002_1 and 2002_2 , 2 files in total  
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_1.csv
rm -f On_Time_Reporting_Carrier_On_Time_Performance_\(1987_present\)_2002_2.csv
```

3.Unzip the Dataset 

Once download the data, go to the directory and unzip the data with the following script:

```
find . -name '*.zip'-exec unzip {} \；
```

the following warning might come, choose "N":
```
#replace readme.html? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: 
```

## Hologres Activation

Let's connect to Hologres via psql with the following command..

```
PGPASSWORD=<password> psql -U <username> -h <ip> -p <port> -d <database>
```

Now you have landed Hologres successfully.

Let's check the database in Hologres and there shoud be no database by default.

```
\l
```

Let's create some database and check.

```
CREATE DATABASE HOLO_TESTDB；
\l;
```

Let's save data into a file since the table we need is quite long.
Create a file first, then save as a text file.

As fowllowing, create one "data.ddl".

```

> mkdir /temp/testDDL/data.ddl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir /temp/data.ddl
```

CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'shard_count', '1');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'bitmap_columns', 'OriginState, DestState, FltDayofMonth, FltDayOfWeek, Carrier');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'dictionary_encoding_columns', 'UniqueCarrier, Carrier, TailNum, Origin, OriginCityName, OriginState, OriginStateName, Dest, DestCityName, DestState, DestStateName, DepTimeBlk, WheelsOff, WheelsOn, ArrTimeBlk, CancellationCode, Div1Airport, Div1WheelsOn, Div1WheelsOff, Div1TailNum, Div2Airport, Div2WheelsOn, Div2WheelsOff, Div2TailNum, Div3Airport, Div3WheelsOn, Div3WheelsOff, Div3TailNum, Div4Airport, Div4WheelsOn, Div4WheelsOff, Div4TailNum, Div5Airport, Div5WheelsOn, Div5WheelsOff, Div5TailNum');
CALL set_table_property('ontime', 'time_to_live_in_seconds', '31536000');
COMMIT;
```

After you finish the script file, execute the script file.

```
PGPASSWORD=<password> psql -U <username> -h <ip> -p <port> -d <database> -f /temp/data.ddl
```

```
BEGIN
CREATE TABLE
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
CALL
COMMIT
```

Let's check the table "ontime" we have just executed.

```
\d ontime
```

Now you have prepared one database with one table.

> ## Data Uploading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Copy Data into Hologres 
```

> Let's upload one csv filefor a quick test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's upload one csv file for a quick test.
```

```

> psql -h <hostname> -p <port> -d quickstart -U <username> -c "copy customers from STDIN with delimiter as ',';" < /tmp/customers.csv

Reviewer: where's the customer.csv file from?

just delete the customer test data part. the tutorial should be correct there's no need for test data

```

Data is uploaded successfully as following.
```
COPY 448620
```

Let's check the data.

```
select * from ontime limit 100;
```

Now you could upload the rest in one time (374 files in total)
Note: mutiple csv files should be uploaded in 5 minutes by the following script:

```
cat /temp/*.csv |PGPASSWORD=[] psql -U [user] -h [host] -p [port] -d [database] -c 'copy ontime from stdin CSV HEADER'
```

if the error comes as follow:

```
ERROR:  exec query failed => status:7,error=ERROR:  Query:[20000745330718297] Get result failed: code: kActorInvokeError
msg: "code: kInternalError msg: \"status { code: SERVER_INTERNAL_ERROR message: \\\"query next from pg executor failed from 11.160.224.215:19577: failed to query next, detail:invalid byte sequence for encoding \\\\\\\"UTF8\\\\\\\": 0xe2 0x22 0x2c [method:QueryNext,transaction_id:20000745330718297,query_id:20000745330718297,batch_id:0,actor_id:837916746126030549:23,worker_address:11.160.224.215:37769,11.160.224.215:31851]\\\" }\""
```

> As I mentioned at the beginning, 14 files fails uploading for the invalid byte sequence for encoding. Delete them and reupload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned at the beginning, 14 files fails uploading for the invalid byte sequence for encoding. Delete them and reupload.
```

 2006 | 2009 | YV      |  113955 |     10108662.00 | 88.71
 2006 | 2009 | XE      |  152431 |     13458963.00 | 88.30
 2003 | 2009 | B6      |  107648 |      9348421.00 | 86.84
 2003 | 2006 | RU      |  126733 |     10062857.00 | 79.40
 2003 | 2009 | FL      |  159064 |     12615310.00 | 79.31
 2003 | 2009 | EV      |  237727 |     18702934.00 | 78.67
 2003 | 2009 | OO      |  257069 |     19904419.00 | 77.43
 2002 | 2009 | MQ      |  397504 |     30761380.00 | 77.39
 1987 | 2009 | CO      |  668965 |     51398024.00 | 76.83
 1987 | 2009 | AA      | 1183353 |     90889033.00 | 76.81
 2004 | 2009 | OH      |  160071 |     12202011.00 | 76.23
 1987 | 2009 | UA      | 1164271 |     88316448.00 | 75.86
 1987 | 2009 | NW      |  705335 |     51055143.00 | 72.38
 1987 | 2000 | TW      |  274399 |     19072728.00 | 69.51
 1987 | 2009 | AS      |  205613 |     14290155.00 | 69.50
 1987 | 2005 | HP      |  220228 |     15197047.00 | 69.01
 1987 | 2009 | DL      | 1127541 |     77564276.00 | 68.79
 1988 | 2009 | US      |  949609 |     64507958.00 | 67.93
 1987 | 2009 | WN      | 1045913 |     69074537.00 | 66.04
(19 rows)

Time: 167.635 ms
```

> ## Tableau：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tableau
```

Tableau is a visual data management tool, which can provide visual analysis by dragging and dropping.

> ## Tableau Visualization While Connect With Hologres

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Below we will example some queries to show you how easy to visualize data in Hologres via Tableau.

## Data Source:

> This data shows the specific details about each flight such as filyear, filmonth, delay situation, etc, from this data we can clearly undestand how's each carrier operates and with these data we will be able to analyse the detail like below queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Preparation work

### Preparation Work 1: Download Tableau Desktop:

Please follow the instruction : [Tableau Desktop](https://www.tableau.com/support/releases)

### Preparation Work 2: Connect to Hologres with Tableau

> Choose PostgreSQL and fill in below necssary information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose PostgreSQL and fill in the necessary information below
```

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/16.png)

#### Step 2: Create one work table, ensure each value in dimensions and measures correctiveness

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/17.png)

#### Step 3: Drag the value to colomns and rows to show the report

Drag carrier to columns

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/18.png)

Drag cnt to rows

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/19.png)

Drag max,min,rate as details (which will be showed when we click the bar as one graph)

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstar-Tableau/20.png)

Drag flights_delayed as label (for each carrier it directly show on the top of the coresponding bar)

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/21.png)

To make the report more clear, we can distinguish the carrier by color, here just drag the left folders carrier dimension to color marks, and on the right of this work area, it shows the carrier legends.

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/22.png)

Now the report has been finished while we are clicking each bars it will show us the detail and each labels in the graph as below.

![image](../images/Quickstart/quickstart-Tableau/23.png)

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Using Hologres with Tableau 

Reviewer: "Load, Query, and Visualize US Flight Dataset in Hologres "

In this tutorial, we will walk through examples of using Hologres and visiualizing in Tableau by the following steps:

1.Data Preparation

2.Hologres Activation

3.Data Uploading

4.Query 

5.Visualization in Tableau

## Data Preparation

1.Data Source

> In this tutorial, we use flight data from [the USA government example](http://www.transtats.bts.gov/DL_SelectFields.asp?Table_ID=236&DB_Short_Name=On-Time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we use flight data from [the US Department of Transportation](http://www.transtats.bts.gov/DL_SelectFields.asp?Table_ID=236&DB_Short_Name=On-Time).
```

> Github has a repo containing scripts and loaders for the flight data ["On-Time Performance"](https://github.com/Percona-Lab/ontime-airline-performance) data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are scripts and loaders for the flight data ["On-Time Performance"](https://github.com/Percona-Lab/ontime-airline-performance) on Github.
```

find . -name '*.zip'-exec unzip {} \；
```

the following warning might come, choose "N":
```
#replace readme.html? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: 
```

> ## Hologres Activation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create Table in Hologres
```
